Updating MCP docs based on feedback (#8137)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-ai/integrate-mcp-vscode.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Features** > **Chat**.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Ensure that **MCP** is **Enabled**.
```

[Microsoft Visual Studio Code (VS Code)](https://code.visualstudio.com/mcp) is a powerful and popular integrated development environment (IDE).

These instructions are for integrating dbt MCP and VS Code. Before starting, ensure you have:
- Completed the [local MCP setup](/docs/dbt-ai/setup-local-mcp)

> - VS Code installed with the latest updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Installed VS Code with the latest updates
```

> - Completed the [local MCP setup](/docs/dbt-ai/setup-local-mcp) or [remote MCP setup](/docs/dbt-ai/setup-remote-mcp)

Reviewer 2: Have we tested that remote MCP in VS Code? It isn't applicable to all apps.

Reviewer 2: Also, the rest of this page is pretty specific to local MCP, so maybe we don't mention remote here.

Author: I haven't personally tested remote MCP in VS Code so I have no problem removing it here until we can confirm if it's supported

> - (For local MCP with CLI) Your dbt project paths are configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (For local MCP with CLI) Configured your dbt project paths
```

> ## Setup steps

Reviewer: I suggest to use this so it's consistent with the other pages
```suggestion
## Set up with local dbt MCP server
```

To get started, in VS Code:

> 1. Open the **Settings** menu and select the correct tab atop the page for your use case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the **Settings** menu and select the correct tab atop the page for your use case:
```

[Microsoft Visual Studio Code (VS Code)](https://code.visualstudio.com/mcp) is a powerful and popular integrated development environment (IDE).

These instructions are for integrating dbt MCP and VS Code. Before starting, ensure you have:
- Completed the [local MCP setup](/docs/dbt-ai/setup-local-mcp)
- Installed VS Code with the latest updates

> - (For local MCP with CLI) Configured your dbt project paths

Reviewer 3: should we link to how to locate the paths this?

Author: Not sure we can do that with the way that they are formatted, but will look at alternatives in a followup

5. Add your server configuration (`dbt`) to the provided `mcp.json` file as one of the servers:

    <Expandable alt_header="Local MCP with dbt platform OAuth" >

    Local MCP with OAuth is for users who want to use the <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> features.
    
    Choose your configuration based on your use case:

    <MCPExample />

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Local MCP (CLI only)">

    For users who only want to use dbt CLI commands with <Constant name="core" /> or <Constant name="fusion" />

    ```json
    {
      "servers": {
        "dbt": {
          "command": "uvx",
          "args": ["dbt-mcp"],
          "env": {
            "DBT_PROJECT_DIR": "/path/to/your/dbt/project",
            "DBT_PATH": "/path/to/your/dbt/executable"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    **Finding your paths:**
    - **DBT_PROJECT_DIR**: Full path to the folder containing your `dbt_project.yml` file
      - macOS/Linux: Run `pwd` from your project folder.
      - Windows: Run `cd` from your project folder in Command Prompt.
    - **DBT_PATH**: Path to dbt executable

>       - macOS/Linux: Run `which dbt` 

Author: ```suggestion
      - macOS/Linux: Run `which dbt`.
```

          "command": "uvx",
          "args": ["dbt-mcp"],
          "env": {
            "DBT_HOST": "cloud.getdbt.com",
            "DBT_TOKEN": "your-token-here",
            "DBT_PROD_ENV_ID": "12345",
            "DBT_PROJECT_DIR": "/path/to/project",
            "DBT_PATH": "/path/to/dbt"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    Using an `.env` file (alternative - two-file configuration):

    ```json
    {
      "servers": {
        "dbt": {
          "command": "uvx",
          "args": ["--env-file", "/path/to/.env", "dbt-mcp"]
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    </Expandable>

6. You can start, stop, and configure your MCP servers by:
      - Running the `MCP: List Servers` command from the Command Palette (Control/Command + Shift + P) and selecting the server.
      - Utilizing the keywords inline within the `mcp.json` file.

  <Lightbox src="/img/mcp/vscode_run_server_keywords_inline.png" width="60%" title="VS Code inline management" />

Now, you can access the dbt MCP server in VS Code through interfaces like GitHub Copilot.

## Troubleshooting
This section contains troubleshooting steps for errors you might encounter when integrating VS Code with MCP.

> ### Cannot find `uvx` executable

Reviewer 3: sugg turning h3's sub headers into expandables

> 4. Open the command palette `Control/Command + Shift + P`, and select either **MCP: Open Workspace Folder MCP Configuration** or **MCP: Open User Configuration**, depending on whether you want to install the MCP server for this workspace or all workspaces for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Open the command palette `Control/Command + Shift + P`, and select either: 
     - **MCP: Open Workspace Folder MCP Configuration** &mdash; if you want to install the MCP server for this workspace
     - **MCP: Open User Configuration** &mdash; if you want to install the MCP server for the user
```

5. Add your server configuration (`dbt`) to the provided `mcp.json` file as one of the servers:

    <Expandable alt_header="Local MCP with dbt platform OAuth" >

    Local MCP with OAuth is for users who want to use the <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> features.
    
    Choose your configuration based on your use case:

    <MCPExample />

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Local MCP (CLI only)">

    For users who only want to use dbt CLI commands with <Constant name="core" /> or <Constant name="fusion" />

    ```json
    {
      "servers": {
        "dbt": {
          "command": "uvx",
          "args": ["dbt-mcp"],
          "env": {
            "DBT_PROJECT_DIR": "/path/to/your/dbt/project",
            "DBT_PATH": "/path/to/your/dbt/executable"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    **Finding your paths:**
    - **DBT_PROJECT_DIR**: Full path to the folder containing your `dbt_project.yml` file

>       - macOS/Linux: Run `pwd` from your project folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - macOS/Linux: Run `pwd` from your project folder.
```

>       - Windows: Run `cd` from your project folder in Command Prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Windows: Run `cd` from your project folder in Command Prompt.
```

    - **DBT_PATH**: Path to dbt executable

>       - macOS/Linux: Run `which dbt` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - macOS/Linux: Run `which dbt` .
```

>       - Windows: Run `where dbt`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Windows: Run `where dbt`.
```

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Local MCP with .env">

>     Advanced users who need custom environment variables or service token authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For advanced users who need custom environment variables or service token authentication
```

>     Using the `env` field (recommended - single file configuration):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Using the `env` field (recommended - single-file configuration):
```

    ```json
    {
      "servers": {
        "dbt": {
          "command": "uvx",
          "args": ["dbt-mcp"],
          "env": {
            "DBT_HOST": "cloud.getdbt.com",
            "DBT_TOKEN": "your-token-here",
            "DBT_PROD_ENV_ID": "12345",
            "DBT_PROJECT_DIR": "/path/to/project",
            "DBT_PATH": "/path/to/dbt"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

>     Using an .env file (alternative - two file configuration):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Using an `.env` file (alternative - two-file configuration):
```

    ```json
    {
      "servers": {
        "dbt": {
          "command": "uvx",
          "args": ["--env-file", "/path/to/.env", "dbt-mcp"]
        }
      }
    }
    ```

    </Expandable>

6. You can start, stop, and configure your MCP servers by:
      - Running the `MCP: List Servers` command from the Command Palette (Control/Command + Shift + P) and selecting the server.
      - Utilizing the keywords inline within the `mcp.json` file.

  <Lightbox src="/img/mcp/vscode_run_server_keywords_inline.png" width="60%" title="VS Code inline management" />

> Now you will be able to access the dbt MCP server in VS Code through interfaces like GitHub Copilot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can access the dbt MCP server in VS Code through interfaces like GitHub Copilot.
```

## Troubleshooting

> 

Reviewer: I suggest we add an intro sentence for this section:
```suggestion
This section contains troubleshooting steps for errors you might encounter when integrating VS Code with MCP.
```

> ### Cannot find uvx executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cannot find `uvx` executable
```

If you see errors like `Could not connect to MCP server dbt` or `spawn uvx ENOENT`, VS Code may be unable to find the `uvx` executable.

> Solution: Use the full path to `uvx` in your configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve, use the full path to `uvx` in your configuration:
```

1. Find the full path:

>    - macOS/Linux: Run `which uvx` in terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - macOS/Linux: Run `which uvx` in Terminal.
```

>    - Windows: Run `where uvx` in Command Prompt or PowerShell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Windows: Run `where uvx` in Command Prompt or PowerShell.
```

2. Update your `mcp.json` to use the full path:
   ```json
   {
     "servers": {
       "dbt": {
         "command": "/full/path/to/uvx",
         "args": ["dbt-mcp"],
         "env": { ... }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   Example on macOS with Homebrew: `"command": "/opt/homebrew/bin/uvx"`

### Configuration not working in WSL

> If you're using VS Code with Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), make sure you've configured the MCP server in the WSL-specific settings, not the local user settings. Use the **Remote** tab in the Settings editor or run **Preferences: Open Remote Settings** from the Command Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using VS Code with WSL, make sure you've configured the MCP server in the WSL-specific settings, not the local user settings. Use the **Remote** tab in the Settings editor or run **Preferences: Open Remote Settings** from the Command Palette.
```

Author: We should spell it out first. It is used earlier in the text but since it's not defining anything, it will be helful for folks jumping into troubleshooting

### Server not starting

Check the MCP server status:

> 1. Run `MCP: List Servers` from the Command Palette (Control/Command + Shift + P)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `MCP: List Servers` from the Command Palette (Control/Command + Shift + P).
```

> 2. Look for any error messages next to the dbt server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Look for any error messages next to the dbt server.
```

> 3. Click on the server to see detailed logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the server to see detailed logs.
```
